gh-123756: Only allow restart in command line mode (#123757)
python/cpython: Doc/library/pdb.rst

access further features, you have to do this yourself:

.. class:: Pdb(completekey='tab', stdin=None, stdout=None, skip=None, \

>                nosigint=False, readrc=True, invoke_origin=PdbInvokeOrigin.Unknown)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
               nosigint=False, readrc=True,
               invoke_origin=PdbInvokeOrigin.Unknown)
```

Reviewer: Actually, maybe we should call these "DebuggerModes", analogous to the compilation modes (exec, eval, single, which are also related to how the program was run)?

Author: Well if we are doing this similar to `compile`, should we just pass in a string which is probably more familiar with Python users? We can add an argument `mode` for `pdb.Pdb` and allow `None`, `'inline'` and `'comandline'`, with `None` as the default.

A real `Enum` might be a bit overkill here.

Reviewer: An enum makes typos get detected earlier. Particularly by linters, but even by the runtime to an extent.

Author: I definitely agree, but it's also making it a bit harder to use. You need to do `mode = pdb.DebuggerMode.Inline`, which is not horrible. Do you think the benefit is worth the cost? I mean `compile` takes a string. Using a string as an enum is not rare in Python, but maybe we tend to use `Enum` in modern Python now?

Reviewer: Good points.

I don't know whether compile works as it is simple because it's old (maybe predates enums?) or whether there was another reason.

Maybe you could ask on python-dev whether people have an opinion on this?

   The *readrc* argument defaults to true and controls whether Pdb will load
   .pdbrc files from the filesystem.

>    The *invoke_origin* argument is used to determine the origin of the debugger.

Reviewer: I think it should be `invocation_origin` rather than `invoke_origin`. There are probably rules about this somewhere in the docs.

>    It should be a value from the :class:`PdbInvokeOrigin` enumeration. The value
>    is used to determine whether certain commands are available or not.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   It should be a value from the :class:`PdbInvokeOrigin` enumeration. It
   impacts the workings of some debugger commands.
```

   The *readrc* argument defaults to true and controls whether Pdb will load
   .pdbrc files from the filesystem.

>    The *mode* argument is used to indicate the origin of the debugger.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   The *mode* argument specifies how the debugger was invoked.
```

   It should be either ``None``, ``'inline'`` or ``'cli'``. It impacts

>    the workings of some debugger commands.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   It impacts the workings of some debugger commands.
   Valid values are ``'inline'`` (when called from the breakpoint() builtin),
   ``'cli'`` (when called from a command line invocation)
   or ``None`` (for backwards compatible behaviour, as before the *mode*
   argument was added).
```

   The *readrc* argument defaults to true and controls whether Pdb will load
   .pdbrc files from the filesystem.

   The *mode* argument specifies how the debugger was invoked.
   It impacts the workings of some debugger commands.

>    Valid values are ``'inline'`` (when called from the breakpoint() builtin),
>    ``'cli'`` (when called from a command line invocation)

Reviewer: I'm not sure my last edit was quite right for the documentation, because users would call pdb how they want. The idea here is to indicate when the stdlib uses them. How about something like this?

```suggestion
   Valid values are ``'inline'`` (used by the breakpoint() builtin),
   ``'cli'`` (used by the command line invocation)
```

   History, breakpoints, actions and debugger options are preserved.
   :pdbcmd:`restart` is an alias for :pdbcmd:`run`.

   .. versionchanged:: 3.14

>       :pdbcmd:`run` and :pdbcmd:`restart` commands are not allowed when the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      :pdbcmd:`run` and :pdbcmd:`restart` commands are disabled when the
```

>       debugger is invoked from an inline breakpoint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
      debugger is invoked in ``'inline'`` mode.
```
